date: 2021-04-11


Did wanikani reviews & lessons (took 1h 30m)

Learned how japanese is a subject-object-verb (SOV) language,
as opposed to english which is a SVO language.
"I ate an apple" in english vs "I apple ate" in JP.
also the subject is often ommited, if it was obvious you were talking about yourself you would just say "apple ate"

I had an idea for practicing japanese listening, download something like [this](https://youtu.be/nuI4OgsJv_Q) in audio form, then pause with earbud controls and try to predict how to say it. (and the reverse too). seems like good practice once I have more vocab from wanikani.

Watched the first two lectures of [Mathematics for computer science](https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-042j-mathematics-for-computer-science-fall-2010/video-lectures/).
It turns out you can watch lectures at 2x speed without missing things if you pause and rewind. Watching at 1x speed seems incredibly slow now.

I feel like 2x speed is also easier to focus with, like being more focused when driving 80mph as opposed to 20mph!

After coding myself into a wall with minder. I've thought about refactoring with explicit data binding, something like

```html
<div>
<p id="name"></p>
<pre id="tex"></pre>
</div>
```
Then
```javascript
const problemBinding = {
  name: $("name").innerText,
  setName: s => $("name").innerText = s,

  tex: $("tex").innerText,
  setTex: s => $("tex").innerText = s,
}
```

Instead of trying to "magically" template everything from this
```html
<div>
<p>{name}</p>
<pre>{tex}</pre>
</div>
```
Templating adds complexity for short/nice templates.
but I ran into an issue with navigation
```javascript
const navigate = (page) => document.location.hash = '#' + page
```
with css
```css
.hidden { display: none; }
.hidden:target { display: block; }
```
and html like this (oversimplified)
```html
<div id="home" class="hidden"><p>Welcome {user}!</p></div>
<div id="login" class="hidden"><p>Please login</p></div>
```
The issue is with logging in, then logging out. the way I was doing it
through direct mutation means if `foo` logged in then logged out, we'd have
```html
<div id="home" class="hidden"><p>Welcome foo!</p></div>
<div id="login" class="hidden"><p>Please login</p></div>
```
Then if `bar` logs in we won't have the template `{user}` anymore and he'll be greated by `Welcome foo!`. oops!

Now that I think about it though, this could be fixed if I moved the routing from css to javscript.

But then I'm forced to manage document location in javascript!
Maybe I can still use hashes, then I can use the native browser history without having to deal with that in JS.

I guess I should just build templates from the html at startup, I thought about this but I thougt it was overcomplicated, but after thinking too much about this I don't see a better way.

When implementing this I ran into some JS wierdness
```javascript
function h(tag) { return document.createElement(tag) }

h('p') != h('p') // true (different p tags)
var x = {}
x[h('p')] = 5
x[h('p')] // 5, wtf? but the tags are different!

var y = new Map()
y.set(h('p'), 5)
y.get(h('p')) // undefined, as expected
```
I searched a bit trying to find the hashing algorithm used for object keys but I coulden't find one, likely something is being converted to a string under the hood.


Was helping some people on the math discord and learned how you represent a nonstandard inner product with a positive definate matrix
$$
x^TCx
$$

I wonder if this result holds for any inner product
$$
\langle{Ax|Ax}\rangle \stackrel{?}{=} \langle{x|A^TAx}\rangle
$$
I tried some algebra now but diden't get anywhere, I'll try later.
