date: 2021-05-21


Today

Spent time with friends so diden't do much studying

Got my sat results, I'm completely devastated. I made 8 mistakes in math! only a 680!

Here's a summary of my mistakes for public shaming

1. Read the question wrong, gave the value of $n$ instead of $6n$ (what they wanted)
2. Super embarrassing, I said that the system
$$
\begin{cases}
y = 2x + 5 \\
y = 2x + 3
\end{cases}
$$
Has a unique solution, this is obviously false since they're parallel lines!
I guessed on this one because in the heat of the moment I thought subtracting eq.1 from eq.2 would give a constant, aha a solution! obviously the system isn't set up like this since subtracting 1 from 2 would give $0 = -2$.<br>
I attribute this to doing too much elimination in linear algebra and not thinking about *what the equations represent*

3. Arithmetic error interpreting a graph's slope, I should have double checked my answer.

Math *with* calculator mistakes

4. Misread the question, they wanted the probability for a *multiple* of 3, not 3!

5. Dataset wasn't sorted so I underestimated the range, my fault for not reading it all.

6. Arithmetic error calculating the median of a frequency table. again I should have caught this when reviewing my answers.

7. Carelessly conflated $60p$ with the $60$ coeff on $p$, Checking units would have avoided this.

8. Wayy too confident doing algebra in my head, here's the problem
$$
(x^2 + bx)(3x^2 - 9x) = 3x^4 - 8x^3 - 3x^2
$$
Seem rediculous to do in your head? it should. I was in such a rush I thought $b$ would only effect the $x^3$ term when *if i'd written it out* I'd have seen obviously it effects both the $x^3$ *and* $x^2$ terms.

Daily
- [x] Exercise
- [x] No Bread
- [x] Journal
- [ ] flowdash journal

