content/posts/recursion.md, before:

title: Recursion abuse
subtitle: Just write a loop, please
thumb: recursion.svg
date: 2021-02-16


I hate when people introduce recursion with something like this
```py
def fib(n):
  if n <= 1: return n
  return fib(n - 1) + fib(n - 2)

fib(6)  # => 8
fib(35) # => 9227465
```

If you run this code yourself, you'll notice `fib(35)` takes a long time to run, that's because fib gets called 29860703 times to compute `fib(35)`.
which is exponential complexity! `$O(2^n)` [[1]](#fn-1)


Nobody should be taught recursion like this, the correct way to write `fib(n)` is
```py
def fib(n):
  if n <= 1: return n
  prev, curr = 1, 1
  for _ in range(n - 2):
    prev, curr = curr, prev+curr
  return curr
```

Harder to understand? Yes, but this is `$O(n)`. so we can compute `fib(100_000)` in an instant. [[2]](#fn-2)

The real time you use recursion is for traversing some kind of tree, ie. in [minimax](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Minimax#Pseudocode) for solving tictactoe (psudocode)

```py
# minimax gives the value of a board state, assuming perfect play
def minimax(board) -> float:
  if board.game_over():
    return board.result() # X win = 1, O win = -1, tie = 0

  if board.side_to_move == X:
    # we are X, we want to maximize the result
    return max(minimax(child) for child in board.children())
  else:
    # we are O, we want to minimize the result
    return min(minimax(child) for child in board.children())

```

Stop recursion abuse!

## Footnotes
1. <a name="fn-1"></a> Actually a better upper bound is `$O(\phi^n)` see [here](https://evoniuk.github.io/posts/fibonacci.html).
2. <a name="fn-2"></a> An explicit formula [exists](https://mathworld.wolfram.com/BinetsFibonacciNumberFormula.html) so you could say `$O(1)` is optimal if you count square roots as an `$O(1)` operation.

Commit message:

Fix recursion post thanks to ender

content/posts/recursion.md, after:

title: Recursion abuse
subtitle: Just write a loop, please
thumb: recursion.svg
date: 2021-02-16


I hate when people introduce recursion with something like this
```py
def fib(n):
  if n <= 1: return n
  return fib(n - 1) + fib(n - 2)

fib(6)  # => 8
fib(35) # => 9227465
```

If you run this code yourself, you'll notice `fib(35)` takes a long time to run, that's because fib gets called 29860703 times to compute `fib(35)`.
which is exponential complexity! `$O(2^n)` [[1]](#fn-1)


Nobody should be taught recursion like this, the correct [[2]](#fn-2) way to write `fib(n)` is
```py
def fib(n):
  if n <= 1: return n
  prev, curr = 1, 1
  for _ in range(n - 2):
    prev, curr = curr, prev+curr
  return curr
```

Harder to understand? Yes, but this is `$O(n)`. so we can compute `fib(100_000)` in an instant. [[3]](#fn-2)

The real time you use recursion is for traversing some kind of tree, ie. in [minimax](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Minimax#Pseudocode) for solving tictactoe (psudocode)

```py
# minimax gives the value of a board state, assuming perfect play
def minimax(board) -> float:
  if board.game_over():
    return board.result() # X win = 1, O win = -1, tie = 0

  if board.side_to_move == X:
    # we are X, we want to maximize the result
    return max(minimax(child) for child in board.children())
  else:
    # we are O, we want to minimize the result
    return min(minimax(child) for child in board.children())

```

Stop recursion abuse!

## Footnotes
1. <a name="fn-1"></a> Actually a better upper bound is `$O(\phi^n)` see [here](https://evoniuk.github.io/posts/fibonacci.html).
2. <a name="fn-2"></a> Using `lru_cache(maxsize=3)` from functools makes it fast but still stack bounded (credit to ender)
3. <a name="fn-3"></a> An explicit formula [exists](https://mathworld.wolfram.com/BinetsFibonacciNumberFormula.html) so you could say `$O(\log n)` is optimal
